(Not fully in-depth yet, just laid out ideas ~ J. The Elder)

# What are Caster Marks?
Caster marks, often referred to just as Marks, Markings, or in some circles "(Magic) Stains", are physical marks on a magic caster's body. Magic is utilized in three steps: first it is channeled through the body, it is catalyzed by somatic, verbal, and on rare occasion material components, and then is sent out through the mark which acts as a focal point or doorway for the essence to pass through.

Marks are distinct and unique to the individual. They can come in a variety of shapes, patterning, and colors (most are black but different hues have been seen before). They are fused into the skin through the practices of Mana Tracing, and are subsequently bound to what scholars refer to as the Fundamental Magics of the Body, which some refer to simply as the soul. After this point, it is impossible to strip an individual of their mark and access to magic.

Markings often start out small on the individual, ranging anywhere from a standard gold coin(about the size of a quarter) to the size of a playing card, but quickly develop and grow as one continues to venture into the practice. Early on, casters often face exhaustion quickly and are prone to over-using their small reserves of mana. However, much like training a muscle, this often results in a more expedited approach to making the mark grow in size, and subsequently the caster grow in strength. (A good rule of thumb: the bigger/more developed the mark often implies the stronger the caster).
### Mana Tracing
The practice of Mana Tracing goes back to the time of the first casters when magic was gifted to mortals. It involves a powerful caster utilizing an enchanted tracing implement to locate and carve the mark into an individual's form. Utilizing the very peculiar nature of the smaller waves of free-flowing mana, they are able to determine where an individual's doorway exists, to which they are then after taught to channel the mana through the anchor point.

While it is true that markings are all unique to the caster, they are also representative of who is performing the tracing, and in a way makes the practice a form of artisanry. Often marks reflect aspects of the teachings from the Tracer, or if they belong to a greater organization, it may look similar to those found on comrades.

Unfortunately for the individual being traced upon, they do not necessarily get to choose where their mark is discovered. Often they are found in common places such as the face, chest, forearm, and hand/palm; however, cases have been noted to be found on upper-arms, lower-torsos, legs, or in rare circumstances, the inside of one's mouth. This is often reflected by lineage or parentage.
### The Costs of Power
Unfortunately there are side-effects to the process of tracing and further indulgence into magic with the marks. The greatest risk appears as the mark continues to grow across the body: magical energies are able to more readily suffuse themselves to the body and are able to pass into channeling much easier. In essence, this allows the caster to utilize less advanced spells more frequently. However, this also weakens the form of the body, and as a result, extremely powerful casters are typically physically frail compared to younger mages.

But exceptions exist, and this can be countered by the caster looking after their own health. Yet, this leads to the second great risk: loss of mental coherence. While most mages typically never get this far, there have been instances where the constant suffusion of magic into the body can lead to delirium, delusions, hallucinations, and overall madness and insanity if not kept in check. For even advanced mages, these typically go unnoticed, but further one delves into magic without ceasing to fortify their body and mind elsewhere, the greater the risk becomes. As such, magi often collect in different schools or cabals to further develop their skills, but to also ensure they aren't alone and kept accountable for their mental states.